[connect-tcp] Discuss use of the Capsule Protocol (#2847)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-connect-tcp.md

Clients SHOULD assume that all proxy resources generated by a single template share a protection space (i.e., a realm) ({{?RFC9110, Section 11.5}}).  For many authentication schemes, this will allow the client to avoid waiting for a "401 (Unauthorized)" response before each new connection through the proxy.

### Use of the Capsule Protocol

In this specification, use of the Capsule Protocol {{?RFC9297}} is OPTIONAL.  Clients MAY request use of the Capsule Protocol by including a "Capsule-Protocol: ?1" header field in the request, and servers MAY confirm its use by echoing this header field in the response.

> When using the Capsule Protocol, TCP data is sent using a new Capsule Type named DATA ({{data-capsule}}).  The DATA type is only applicable when the use of the Capsule Protocol is optional.  It conveys a payload that should be processed in the same way as ordinary stream contents when the Capsule Protocol is not in use.

Reviewer: 2nd sentence seems to seems broken. Maybe what you meant to state is:
```suggestion
When the use of the Capsule Protocol is negotiated, TCP data is sent using a new Capsule Type named DATA ({{data-capsule}}).  It conveys a payload that should be processed in the same way as ordinary stream contents when the Capsule Protocol is not in use.
```

Author: OK, I've reframed this in a way that is hopefully clearer.

Reviewer: Thank you for the changes! b4d6675 looks good to me.

> Server support for the Capsule Protocol is also OPTIONAL.  If the request includes "Capsule-Protocol: ?1", and the server does not support the Capsule Protocol, the server MUST respond with a 4xx (Client Error) status and a "Capsule-Protocol: ?0" response header field.  Upon receiving such a response, the client SHOULD disable use of the Capsule Protocol with this URI Template for the remainder of the session and retry the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server support for the Capsule Protocol is also OPTIONAL.  If the request includes "Capsule-Protocol: ?1", and the server does not support the Capsule Protocol, the server MUST respond with a 4xx (Client Error) status and a "Capsule-Protocol: ?0" response header field, and subsequently discard any received data stream on this request stream.  Upon receiving such a response, the client MUST disable use of the Capsule Protocol with this URI Template for the remainder of the session and retry the request.
```

> Server support for the Capsule Protocol is also OPTIONAL.  If the request includes "Capsule-Protocol: ?1", and the server does not support the Capsule Protocol, the server MUST respond with a 4xx (Client Error) status and a "Capsule-Protocol: ?0" response header field, and MUST discard any data received on this request stream.  Upon receiving such a response, the client MUST disable use of the Capsule Protocol with this URI Template for the remainder of the session and retry the request.

Reviewer 2: You can't infer what end-to-end extensions a server supports from one request, because different requests can be routed to different backends even if they are sent over the same client-intermediary connection. For this to work I think we need to mandate server suppport.

Author: That's fine in this case.  The client uses the capsule protocol until it encounters a request where that is rejected.  Then, for the rest of the "session" it sticks to baseline.  Once your server fleet is finished upgrading to capsule support, clients will use it reliably (if they support it).

If you want, we could soften the notion of a "session" to indicate that clients can retry after a reasonable amount of time.

Reviewer 3: "MUST disable for the rest of the session" is a bit strong.  "MUST retry without the Capsule Protocol and MAY disable for all future requests" is all that's actually needed. Let implementations decide how aggressive they want to be about backing off in a heterogeneous environment.

Author: @MikeBishop OK, I've made that change.

Reviewer 2: The current text still uses the word "session" without defining what that means. But at this point we're in the weeds, I'm ok with merging this and then figuring out the details in separate smaller issues/PRs

> A client that sends this header field MUST NOT send any data on the stream until it receives a response, because it does not know whether the server will treat the data as Capsule Protocol or TCP contents.

Author: This latency cost is unfortunate, and could be avoided by making Capsule Protocol mandatory to implement for servers.  However, that would increase the implementation complexity for a minimal compliant server, and should not be done lightly.

@DavidSchinazi @mnot

Reviewer: Yeah, current design allows you to do various optimisations such calling splice (2) to avoid making copies to / from userspace, or pass the socket to some other process (with TLS being offloaded to the kernel). If we are to mandate the use of Caspules, those optimisations become impossible.

Author: A middle ground would be to keep this text, and later define a way for servers to commit to supporting the Capsule Protocol.  Note that the HTTPS record would likely not work for this commitment, because it must be fully authenticated.

Reviewer 4: I share the performance concerns. Something Ilthat came up when I talked about this with @DavidSchinazi is the possibility of having a $humongous data frame that extends to the end of the stream, so that endpoints can opt out of needing capsule framing if they don't believe they need to send any other capsules.

I havent thought exactly about how that works across intermediaries for the different use cases we discussed during the IETF 120 neeting

Reviewer: @LPardue 
> Something Ilthat came up when I talked about this with @DavidSchinazi is the possibility of having a $humongous data frame that extends to the end of the stream, so that endpoints can opt out of needing capsule framing if they don't believe they need to send any other capsules.

I'm not sure if that solves the performance concerns; the approach provides a escape hatch for senders, but it does not provide a way for the receivers to stay out from the business of decoding Capsules.

Author: > I really do care about allowing the client to send data with the request.

OK, I've reworked this text to make that safe while keeping capsule support optional, based on your suggestion.

> there is no reason to optimize HTTP/1.1 at this point.

I have heard that HTTP/3->HTTP/1.1 conversion at a gateway is a common pattern, so the performance of HTTP/1.1 may be significant even if it is not heavily used over the open internet.

> When using the Capsule Protocol, TCP payload data is sent in the payload of a new Capsule Type named DATA ({{data-capsule}}).  This capsule's payload carries the same significance that ordinary stream data has when the Capsule Protocol is not in use.  It is applicable whenever use of the Capsule Protocol is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the Capsule Protocol, TCP payload data is sent in the payload of a new Capsule Type named DATA ({{data-capsule}}).  The concatenation of ordered DATA capsule payloads has the same semantics as what would have been sent on the data stream, were the Capsule Protocol not in use.  It is applicable whenever use of the Capsule Protocol is optional.
```

| Path Segment | Description  | Reference       |
| tcp          | TCP Proxying | (This document) |

> ## New Capsule Type {#data-capsule}

Author: I've expanded that text and added a section reference to this table entry.

IF APPROVED, IANA is requested to add the following entry to the "HTTP Capsule Types" registry:

| ----- | ------------ | --------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------- |
| Value | Capsule Type | Status    | Reference                             | Change Controller | Contact |

> | (TBD) | DATA         | permanent | (This document), {{capsule-protocol}} | IETF              | HTTPBIS |

Reviewer 2: Can you add a randomly generated 4-byte capsule type so we can test interop? (make sure to avoid grease values)

Author: OK, done.  I've also added a note defining "connect-tcp-05" for interop.
